[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: Okay,
let's look at addg.
Addg takes a first argument,
it creates a more function.
If the first argument is not undefined
it returns the more function.
The more function takes the next argument
If the next argument is undefined
it returns first otherwise it adds
next to first and returns itself.
By returning itself allows for
the next thing to happen and
I call this return recursion.
Recursion is when you have
a function that calls itself
recursion is when you have
a function that returns itself.
So anybody do anything else?
Take a different approach to solving this?
There are lots of possible solutions.
>> Speaker 2: You're doing the same thing
where you compute ahead the next value.
That you, you did it in another
part another one yesterday.
>> Douglas Crockford: So
if you didn't get this one,
please write it down cuz we're
gonna need it for the next one.
Anybody else?
>> Speaker 3: Well, it is different and
I don't know how to read it and say that.
>> Speaker 3: The effects is undefined,
return undefined.
I don't know, I don't see anything,
never mind, keep going.
>> Douglas Crockford: All right.
>> Douglas Crockford: So
I'll give you a minute to capture this.
So while that's happening
can anyone guess the name
of the next function that we should write
>> Speaker 3: Lift g,
lift g
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah very very good,
lift g, of course.
What else would you want to write next?
Write a function liftg.
That will take a binary function and
apply it to many invocations.
So it's similar to what we've done before.
If you pass the add function to liftg
it gives you the Aggi function.
We can do the same thing with
multiply you make the multifunction.
>> Speaker 2: If you
passed add into liftg,
what would the value of
the first operation be?
>> Speaker 2: What would you get
back from the first time you call?
>> Douglas Crockford: Undefined.
>> Speaker 2: It would be undefined.
>> Douglas Crockford: Well if
you were to call the resulting-
>> Speaker 2: No, instead of passing in
mul, you pass in add.
>> Douglas Crockford: Right, although so
you get an undefined, you get 3, and
then you’ll get 7.
And then you'll get 7 and
0 against the form.
>> Speaker 2: You got 3, 0.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: But
with mul you’re multiplying 3 times 1.
Okay.
>> Douglas Crockford: All right so
here is liftg, liftg returns a function,
that function gets the first argument
if first is undefined it returns first.
Otherwise it returns the more function.
The more function gets the next argument
if next is undefined it returns first.
Otherwise it sets first to the result
of the binary function with first and
next And returns itself.
So who got something that works
outstanding very very good.
Any questions about this one,
anybody do a different approach that
they think is worth mentioning.
>> Speaker 4: I do a great work but
I tried First option number.
>> Douglas Crockford: Right so
if you didn't get this one get it down.
You might want to refer
to it in the next one.
>> Speaker 3: This is certainly good yet
you function inside Inside the new
function and generalize the.
>> Speaker 3: The ig function.
>> Speaker 2: So the first time
if you call this with nothing
then you would, you pass in undefined
>> Speaker 2: You just get back itself.
>> Douglas Crockford: Right
we return undefined so.
>> Speaker 2: The next time when you,
so if you pass in a number.
>> Douglas Crockford: That
number is now first and
then the second time if we get
undefined we return first.
>> Speaker 2: The number
is now First I see.
Yeah great.
>> Douglas Crockford: Write a function
array G that will build an array for
many invocations So if we call array Gand
pass it nothing It returns an empty array.
If we pass it three and then nothing
it returns array containing three.
If we pass it through three and then four
and then five, and nothing returns three,
four and five.
Okay so here is arrayg, arrayg takes
a first argument, it creates an array.
It makes a more function and
it returns the result of calling the more
function with the first argument.
The more function gets the next argument
if next is undefined it returns the Array.
Otherwise it pushes the next argument
onto the Array, and returns itself.
So who got something that works?
Very good, very good.
Did anybody try using liftg?
Anyone?
That would have an extra credit all right.
So let's do another one.
Okay we've I've got got
this is a good one for you.
Make a function continuize that
takes a unitary function and
returns a function that takes
a callback and an argument.
There's a style of programming
called continuation passing style.
In which functions,
instead of returning values,
instead are given an additional argument
which is the function to which to deliver
that value and in continuation passing
style computation is always going forward,
functions tend not to return anything.
They're always going forward and
it's amazing.
And when JavaScript gets
tail recursion with ES6,
then we'll be able to do that in
JavaScript and that will be great.
So this function is intended to help us to
migrate toward that style of programming.
So what it'll do is Allow us to take
any existing unary function and
turn it into a function
that will take a call back.
So in this case we're gonna pass
the square root function to continue wise,
it will return the square root
with a callback function.
We will then call that function passing in
a function that will receive the result.
In this case I'm suggesting that it could
be the Alert function, which is something
that lives in the browser, which will
pop up a box and show you the answer.
If you're not running in a browser
you could log to the console or
whatever you're doing.
Some just some way of seeing
where the result is going to go.
And then will pass in 81 which is the
number we want to take the square root of.
So if this function is working correctly,
then we should see a box show up on
the browser with the number 9 in it.
Okay, so here's continuize, continuize
takes a unary function The returns
of function that takes a callback and
an argument and returns result of calling
the callback function with the result
of the unary function and the argument.
So who got something that works?
Congratulations you are now in the 90%
tile of JavaScript programmers.
Not that the bar was ever very high but
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: But you're up there
and it's because you understand an aspect
of the language which is really,
really important, vitally important that
most of the people working this language
don't know,
don't know that it's even there.
And it's really important.
What we've been doing over
the last day is a paradigm shift.
I could talk for hours and hours about
what could happen when you have
a function that returns a function and
you would think you would understand
those words and go yeah but,
unless you've done it a few dozen times,
it really won't make any difference.
It won't make any sense but
you've done it now.
When you came in here yesterday morning.
You did not know how to
write this function.
And you just knocked it off.
You wrote it very quickly and
you got it right.
So good for you.
And the reason we went through all of this
is that I wanted to explain to you again
something that I did on the first day that
you thought you understood but you didn't.
So, we're going to go through that again.
Now and this time you now
have the tools of the context
in order to understand
what I was talking about